Networking:
Networking is the practice of connecting computers and devices so they can communicate, share resources, and exchange data.
In computing, a network can be formed by anywhere from 2 devices to billions. These devices include everything from your 
laptop and phone to security cameras, traffic lights and even farming!

Internet:
The Internet is one giant network that consists of many, many small networks within itself. These small networks are called 
private networks, where networks connecting these small networks are called public networks or the Internet. The first iteration 
of the Internet was within the ARPANET project in the late 1960s. This project was funded by the United States Defence 
Department and was the first documented network in action. However, it wasn't until 1989 when the Internet as we know 
it was invented by Tim Berners-Lee by the creation of the World Wide Web (WWW). It wasn't until this point that the Internet 
started to be used as a repository for storing and sharing information, just like it is today.

 IP Address:
 An IP address (or Internet Protocol) address can be used as a way of identifying a host on a network for a period of time, 
 where that IP address can then be associated with another device without the IP address changing. An IP address is a set of 
 numbers that are divided into four octets. The value of each octet will summarise to be the IP address of the device on the 
 network. This number is calculated through a technique known as IP addressing & subnetting, IP addresses can change from device 
 to device but cannot be active simultaneously more than once within the same network. IP Addresses follow a set of standards 
 known as protocols. These protocols are the backbone of networking and force many devices to communicate in the same language.
 Depending on where they are will determine what type of IP address they have: a public or private IP address.
 A public address is used to identify the device on the Internet, whereas a private address is used to identify a device amongst 
 other devices.

 MAC Addresses:
 Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. 
 This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address. 
 The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) 
 split into two's and separated by a colon. These colons are considered separators. For example, a4:c3:f0:85:ac:2d. The first six 
 characters represent the company that made the network interface, and the last six is a unique number.
 
 However, an interesting thing with MAC addresses is that they can be faked or "spoofed" in a process known as spoofing. This 
 spoofing occurs when a networked device pretends to identify as another using its MAC address. When this occurs, it can often break 
 poorly implemented security designs that assume that devices talking on a network are trustworthy. Take the following scenario: 
 A firewall is configured to allow any communication going to and from the MAC address of the administrator. If a device were to 
 pretend or "spoof" this MAC address, the firewall would now think that it is receiving communication from the administrator when 
 it isn't.

 Ping:
 Ping is one of the most fundamental network tools available to us. Ping uses ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) packets to 
 determine the performance of a connection between devices, for example, if the connection exists or is reliable. The time taken for 
 ICMP packets travelling between devices is measured by ping. This measuring is done using ICMP's echo packet and then ICMP's echo 
 reply from the target device. Pings can be performed against devices on a network, such as your home network or resources like websites. 
 This tool can be easily used and comes installed on Operating Systems (OSs) such as Linux and Windows. The syntax to do a simple ping is 
 ping IP address or website URL.

LAN Topologies:
LAN Topologies are the physical connections between devices on a network. There are three main types of LAN topologies:

 Sar Topology:
 The main premise of a star topology is that devices are individually connected via a central networking device such as a switch or hub. 
 This topology is the most commonly found today because of its reliability and scalability - despite the cost. Any information sent to a 
 device in this topology is sent via the central device to which it connects. 

 Because more cabling and the purchase of dedicated networking equipment is required for this topology, it is more expensive than any 
 of the other topologies. However, despite the added cost, this does provide some significant advantages. For example, this topology is 
 much more scalable in nature, which means that it is very easy to add more devices as the demand for the network increases.

 Unfortunately, the more the network scales, the more maintenance is required to keep the network functional. This increased dependence 
 on maintenance can also make troubleshooting faults much harder. Furthermore, the star topology is still prone to failure - albeit reduced. 
 For example, if the centralised hardware that connects devices fails, these devices will no longer be able to send or receive data. 
 Thankfully, these centralised hardware devices are often robust.

 Bus Topology:
 This type of connection relies upon a single connection which is known as a backbone cable. This type of topology is similar to the leaf 
 off of a tree in the sense that devices (leaves) stem from where the branches are on this cable. Because all data destined for each device 
 travels along the same cable, it is very quickly prone to becoming slow and bottlenecked if devices within the topology are simultaneously 
 requesting data. This bottleneck also results in very difficult troubleshooting because it quickly becomes difficult to identify which 
 device is experiencing issues with data all travelling along the same route.

 However, with this said, bus topologies are one of the easier and more cost-efficient topologies to set up because of their expenses, such 
 as cabling or dedicated networking equipment used to connect these devices.

 Lastly, another disadvantage of the bus topology is that there is little redundancy in place in case of failures. This disadvantage is 
 because there is a single point of failure along the backbone cable. If this cable were to break, devices can no longer receive or transmit 
 data along the bus.

 Ring Topology:
 The ring topology (also known as token topology) boasts some similarities. Devices such as computers are connected directly to each other 
 to form a loop, meaning that there is little cabling required and less dependence on dedicated hardware such as within a star topology. 
 A ring topology works by sending data across the loop until it reaches the destined device, using other devices along the loop to forward 
 the data. Interestingly, a device will only send received data from another device in this topology if it does not have any to send itself. 
 If the device happens to have data to send, it will send its own data first before sending data from another device.

 Because there is only one direction for data to travel across this topology, it is fairly easy to troubleshoot any faults that arise. However, 
 this is a double-edged sword because it isn't an efficient way of data travelling across a network, as it may have to visit many multiple 
 devices first before reaching the intended device.

 Lastly, ring topologies are less prone to bottlenecks, such as within a bus topology, as large amounts of traffic are not travelling across 
 the network at any one time. The design of this topology does, however, mean that a fault such as cut cable, or broken device will result 
 in the entire networking breaking.

Switch:
Switches are dedicated devices within a network that are designed to aggregate multiple other devices such as computers, printers, or any 
other networking-capable device using ethernet. These various devices plug into a switch's port. Switches are usually found in larger networks 
such as businesses, schools, or similar-sized networks, where there are many devices to connect to the network. Switches can connect a large 
number of devices by having ports of 4, 8, 16, 24, 32, and 64 for devices to plug into.

Switches are much more efficient than their lesser counterpart (hubs/repeaters). Switches keep track of what device is connected to which port. 
This way, when they receive a packet, instead of repeating that packet to every port like a hub would do, it just sends it to the intended target, 
thus reducing network traffic.

Both Switches and Routers can be connected to one another. The ability to do this increases the redundancy (the reliability) of a network by adding 
multiple paths for data to take. If one path goes down, another can be used. Whilst this may reduce the overall performance of a network because 
packets have to take longer to travel, there is no downtime -- a small price to pay considering the alternative.

Switches can operate at both layer 2 and layer 3 of the OSI model. However, these are exclusive in the sense that Layer 2 switches cannot operate at layer 3.
Layer 2 switches will forward frames (remember that the original IP packets are encapsulated within the frames) onto the connected devices using their MAC address.
These switches are solely responsible for sending frames to the correct device. 
Now, let's move onto layer 3 switches. These switches are more sophisticated than layer 2, as they can perform some of the responsibilities of a router. Namely, 
these switches will send frames to devices (as layer 2 does) and route packets to other devices using the IP protocol. 

Router:
It's a router's job to connect networks and pass data between them. It does this by using routing (hence the name router!). Routing is the label 
given to the process of data travelling across networks. Routing involves creating a path between networks so that this data can be successfully 
delivered. Routing is useful when devices are connected by many paths. Routers operate at Layer 3 of the OSI model. They often feature an interactive 
interface (such as a website or a console) that allows an administrator to configure various rules such as port forwarding or firewalling.

Subnetting:
Subnetting is the process of dividing a network into smaller networks. This is done by dividing the network into multiple smaller networks. 
The smaller networks are called subnets. This is done to increase the security of a network by making it harder for hackers to access it.
Subnetting is achieved by splitting up the number of hosts that can fit within the network, represented by a number called a subnet mask.
Like an IP address is made up of four sections called octets. The same goes for a subnet mask which is also represented as a number of four 
bytes (32 bits), ranging from 0 to 255 (0-255).

Subnetting provides a range of benefits, including:
->Efficiency
->Security
->Full control

Subnets use IP addresses in three different ways:
->Identify the network address
->Identify the host address
->Identify the default gateway

 Network Address:
 This address identifies the start of the actual network and is used to identify a network's existence.
 For example, a device with the IP address of 192.168.1.100 will be on the network identified by 192.168.1.0.

 Host Address:
 An IP address here is used to identify a device on the subnet.
 For example, a device will have the network address of 192.168.1.1

 Default Gateway:
 The default gateway address is a special address assigned to a device on the network that is capable of sending information to another network.
 Any data that needs to go to a device that isn't on the same network (i.e. isn't on 192.168.1.0) will be sent to this device. These devices can 
 use any host address but usually use either the first or last host address in a network (.1 or .254).

ARP:
A MAC address and an IP address, the Address Resolution Protocol or ARP for short, is the technology that is responsible for allowing devices to 
identify themselves on a network. Simply, ARP allows a device to associate its MAC address with an IP address on the network. Each device on a 
network will keep a log of the MAC addresses associated with other devices. When devices wish to communicate with another, they will send a
broadcast to the entire network searching for the specific device. Devices can use ARP to find the MAC address (and therefore the physical 
identifier) of a device for communication.

 Working of ARP:
 Each device within a network has a ledger to store information on, which is called a cache. In the context of ARP, this cache stores the identifiers 
 of other devices on the network.
 
 In order to map these two identifiers together (IP address and MAC address), ARP sends two types of messages:
 ->ARP Request
 ->ARP Reply
 When an ARP request is sent, a message is broadcasted on the network to other devices asking, "What is the mac address that owns this IP address?" 
 When the other devices receive that message, they will only respond if they own that IP address and will send an ARP reply with its MAC address. 
 The requesting device can now remember this mapping and store it in its ARP cache for future use.

DHCP:
IP addresses can be assigned either manually, by entering them physically into a device, or automatically and most commonly by using a DHCP (Dynamic 
Host Configuration Protocol) server. When a device connects to a network, if it has not already been manually assigned an IP address, it sends out a 
request (DHCP Discover) to see if any DHCP servers are on the network. The DHCP server then replies back with an IP address the device could use (DHCP Offer). 
The device then sends a reply confirming it wants the offered IP Address (DHCP Request), and then lastly, the DHCP server sends a reply acknowledging this 
has been completed, and the device can start using the IP Address (DHCP ACK).

OSI Model:
The OSI model (or Open Systems Interconnection Model) is an essential model used in networking.  This critical model provides a framework dictating 
how all networked devices will send, receive and interpret data. One of the main benefits of the OSI model is that devices can have different functions 
and designs on a network while communicating with other devices. Data sent across a network that follows the uniformity of the OSI model can be 
understood by other devices.
The OSI model consists of seven layers. Each layer has a different set of responsibilities and is arranged from Layer 7 to Layer 1.
At every individual layer that data travels through, specific processes take place, and pieces of information are added to this data. This process is 
called encapsulation.

Layer 7: Application Layer
Layer 6: Presentation Layer
Layer 5: Session Layer
Layer 4: Transport Layer
Layer 3: Network Layer
Layer 2: Data Link Layer
Layer 1: Physical Layer

 ->Physical Layer: 
   This layer references the physical components of the hardware used in networking and is the lowest layer that you will find. 
   Devices use electrical signals to transfer data between each other in a binary numbering system (1's and 0's).

   For example, ethernet cables connecting devices.

 ->Data Link Layer: 
   The data link layer focuses on the physical addressing of the transmission. It receives a packet from the network layer 
   (including the IP address for the remote computer) and adds in the physical MAC (Media Access Control) address of the receiving endpoint. 
   Inside every network-enabled computer is a Network Interface Card (NIC) which comes with a unique MAC address to identify it.
   MAC addresses are set by the manufacturer and literally burnt into the card; they can’t be changed – although they can be spoofed. When 
   information is sent across a network, it’s actually the physical address that is used to identify where exactly to send the information. 
   Additionally, it’s also the job of the data link layer to present the data in a format suitable for transmission.

 ->Network Layer: 
   The third layer of the OSI model (network layer) is where the magic of routing & re-assembly of data takes place (from these small 
   chunks to the larger chunk). Firstly, routing simply determines the most optimal path in which these chunks of data should be sent.

   Whilst some protocols at this layer determine exactly what is the "optimal" path that data should take to reach a device, we should only know
   about their existence at this stage of the networking module. Briefly, these protocols include OSPF (Open Shortest Path First) and RIP 
   (Routing Information Protocol). The factors that decide what route is taken is decided by the following:

   -->What path is the shortest? I.e. has the least amount of devices that the packet needs to travel across.
   -->What path is the most reliable? I.e. have packets been lost on that path before?
   -->Which path has the faster physical connection? I.e. is one path using a copper connection (slower) or a fibre (considerably faster)?
   At this layer, everything is dealt with via IP addresses such as 192.168.1.100. Devices such as routers capable of delivering packets using IP 
   addresses are known as Layer 3 devices — because they are capable of working at the third layer of the OSI model.

 ->Transport Layer:
   When data is sent between devices, it follows one of two different protocols that are decided based upon several factors:

   -->TCP:
      The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) reserves a constant connection between the two devices for the amount of time it takes for the 
      data to be sent and received. Not only this, but TCP incorporates error checking into its design. Error checking is how TCP can guarantee 
      that data sent from the small chunks in the session layer (layer 5) has then been received and reassembled in the same order.
      Advantages:
      --->Guarantees the accuracy of data.
      --->Capable of synchronising two devices to prevent each other from being flooded with data.
      --->Performs a lot more processes for reliability.
      
      Disadvantages:
      --->Requires a reliable connection between the two devices. If one small chunk of data is not received, then the entire chunk of data cannot be used.
      --->A slow connection can bottleneck another device as the connection will be reserved on the receiving computer the whole time.
      --->TCP is significantly slower than UDP because more work has to be done by the devices using this protocol.
      
      TCP is used for situations such as file sharing, internet browsing or sending an email. This usage is because these services require the data to 
      be accurate and complete.
   
   -->UDP:
      User Datagram Protocol doesn't boast the many features offered by TCP, such as error checking and reliability. In fact, any data that gets sent 
      via UDP is sent to the computer whether it gets there or not. There is no synchronisation between the two devices or guarantee.
      Advantages:
      --->UDP is much faster than TCP.
      --->UDP leaves the application layer (user software) to decide if there is any control over how quickly packets are sent.
      --->UDP does not reserve a continuous connection on a device as TCP does.

      Disadvantages:
      --->UDP doesn't care if the data is received.
      --->It is quite flexible to software developers in this sense.
      ---> This means that unstable connections result in a terrible experience for the user.

      UDP is useful in situations where there are small pieces of data being sent. For example, protocols used for discovering devices (ARP and DHCP) 
      or larger files such as video streaming (where it is okay if some part of the video is pixelated. Pixels are just lost pieces of data!)

 ->Session Layer:
   Once data has been correctly translated or formatted from the presentation layer (layer 6), the session layer (layer 5) will begin to create and 
   maintain the connection to other computer for which the data is destined. When a connection is established, a session is created. Whilst this 
   connection is active, so is the session. The session layer is also responsible for closing the connection if it hasn't been used in a while or 
   if it is lost. Additionally, a session can contain "checkpoints," where if the data is lost, only the newest pieces of data are required to be 
   sent, saving bandwidth. Sessions are unique — meaning that data cannot travel over different sessions, but in fact, only across each session instead.

 ->Presentation Layer:
   This layer acts as a translator for data to and from the application layer (layer 7). The receiving computer will also understand data sent to a 
   computer in one format destined for in another format. For example, when you send an email, the other user may have another email client to you, 
   but the contents of the email will still need to display the same. Security features such as data encryption (like HTTPS when visiting a secure site) 
   occur at this layer.

 ->Application Layer:
   The application layer is the layer in which protocols and rules are in place to determine how the user should interact with data sent or received. 
   Everyday applications such as email clients, browsers, or file server browsing software such as FileZilla provide a friendly, Graphical User Interface 
   (GUI) for users to interact with data sent or received. Other protocols include DNS (Domain Name System), which is how website addresses are translated 
   into IP addresses.

Packets and Frames:
Packets and frames are small pieces of data that, when forming together, make a larger piece of information or message. However, they are two different 
things in the OSI model. A packet is a piece of data from Layer 3 (Network Layer) of the OSI model, containing information such as an IP header and payload. 
A frame, however, is used at Layer 2 (Data Link) of the OSI model, which, encapsulates the packet and adds additional information such as MAC addresses. 
You can think of this process as similar to mailing a letter through the post. The envelope is a frame, which, is used to move the contents (in this analogy, 
the packet) of the envelope to another place. Once the recepient opens the envelop (frame), they will know how to forward the letter (packet) itself. 
This process is called encapsulation. At this stage, it's safe to assume that when we are talking about anything IP addresses, we are talking about packets. 
When the encapsulating information is stripped away, we're talking about the frame itself. Packets are an efficient way of communicating data across networked 
devices. Because this data is exchanged in small pieces, there is less chance of bottlenecking occurring across a network than large messages being sent at once.

A packet using internet protocol will have a set of headers that contain additional pieces of information to the data that is being sent across a network.
Some notable headers include:

->Time to Live: This field sets an expiry timer for the packet to not clog up your network if it never manages to reach a host or escape!

->Checksum: This field provides integrity checking for protocols such as TCP/IP. If any data is changed, this value will be different from what was expected and 
  therefore corrupt.

->Source Address: The IP address of the device that the packet is being sent from so that data knows where to return to.

->Destination Address: The device's IP address the packet is being sent to so that data knows where to travel next.

TCP/IP:
TCP (or Transmission Control Protocol for short) is another one of these rules used in networking. This protocol is very similar to the OSI model. The TCP/IP 
protocol consists of four layers and is arguably just a summarised version of the OSI model. These layers are:

->Application
->Transport
->Internet
->Network Interface

Very similar to how the OSI model works, information is added to each layer of the TCP model as the piece of data (or packet) traverses it. As you may recall, 
this process is known as encapsulation - where the reverse of this process is decapsulation. One defining feature of TCP is that it is connection-based, which 
means that TCP must establish a connection between both a client and a device acting as a server before data is sent. Because of this, TCP guarantees that any 
data sent will be received on the other end. This process is named the Three-way handshake.

TCP packets contain various sections of information known as headers that are added from encapsulation. Some notable headers include:

->Source Port: This value is the port opened by the sender to send the TCP packet from. This value is chosen randomly (out of the ports from 0-65535 that aren't 
  already in use at the time).

->Destination Port: This value is the port number that an application or service is running on the remote host (the one receiving data); for example, a webserver 
  running on port 80. Unlike the source port, this value is not chosen at random.

->Source IP: This is the IP address of the device that is sending the packet.

->Destination IP: This is the IP address of the device that is receiving the packet.

->Sequence Number: This value is a unique number that is used to help ensure that data is received in the correct order.

->Acknowledgement Number: After a piece of data has been given a sequence number, the number for the next piece of data will have the sequence number + 1.

->Checksum: This value is what gives TCP integrity. A mathematical calculation is made where the output is remembered. When the receiving device performs the 
  mathematical calculation, the data must be corrupt if the output is different from what was sent.

->Data: This header is where the data, i.e. bytes of a file that is being transmitted, is stored.

->Flag: This header determines how the packet should be handled by either device during the handshake process. Specific flags will determine specific behaviours.

The Three-way handshake - the term given for the process used to establish a connection between two devices. The Three-way handshake communicates using a few 
special messages:

->SYN: A SYN message is the initial packet sent by a client during the handshake. This packet is used to initiate a connection and synchronise the two devices together.

->SYN/ACK: This packet is sent by the receiving device (server) to acknowledge the synchronisation attempt from the client.

->ACK: The acknowledgement packet can be used by either the client or server to acknowledge that a series of messages/packets have been successfully received.

->DATA: Once a connection has been established, data (such as bytes of a file) is sent via the "DATA" message.

->FIN: This packet is used to cleanly (properly) close the connection after it has been complete.

->RST: This packet abruptly ends all communication. This is the last resort and indicates there was some problem during the process. For example, if the service or 
  application is not working correctly, or the system has faults such as low resources. 

UDP/IP:
The User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is another protocol that is used to communicate data between devices. UDP is a stateless protocol that doesn't require a constant 
connection between the two devices for data to be sent. For example, the Three-way handshake does not occur, nor is there any synchronisation between the two devices.
There is no regard for whether or not data is received, and there are no safeguards such as those offered by TCP, such as data integrity.

UDP packets are much simpler than TCP packets and have fewer headers. However, both protocols share some standard headers, which are what is annotated below:

->Time to Live (TTL): This field sets an expiry timer for the packet to not clog up your network if it never manages to reach a host or escape!

->Source Address: The IP address of the device that the packet is being sent from, so that data knows where to return to.

->Destination Address: The device's IP address the packet is being sent to so that data knows where to travel next.

->Source Port: This value is the port that is opened by the sender to send the UDP packet from. This value is randomly chosen (out of the ports from 0-65535 that aren't 
  already in use at the time).

->Destination Port: This value is the port number that an application or service is running on the remote host (the one receiving the data); for example, a webserver 
  running on port 80. Unlike the source port, this value is not chosen at random.

->Data: This header is where data, i.e. bytes of a file that is being transmitted, is stored.

Ports:
Ports are an essential point in which data can be exchanged. Think of a harbour and port. Ships wishing to dock at the harbour will have to go to a port compatible with 
the dimensions and the facilities located on the ship. When the ship lines up, it will connect to a port at the harbour. Take, for instance, that a cruise liner cannot 
dock at a port made for a fishing vessel and vice versa. These ports enforce what can park and where — if it isn't compatible, it cannot park here. Networking devices 
also use ports to enforce strict rules when communicating with one another. When a connection has been established (recalling from the OSI model's room), any data sent 
or received by a device will be sent through these ports. In computing, ports are a numerical value between 0 and 65535 (65,535). Because ports can range from anywhere 
between 0-65535, there quickly runs the risk of losing track of what application is using what port. A busy harbour is chaos! Thankfully, we associate applications, 
software and behaviours with a standard set of rules. For example, by enforcing that any web browser data is sent over port 80, software developers can design a web 
browser such as Google Chrome or Firefox to interpret the data the same way as one another. This means that all web browsers now share one common rule: data is sent 
over port 80. How the browsers look, feel and easy to use is up to the designer or the user's decision. While the standard rule for web data is port 80, a few other 
protocols have been allocated a standard rule. Any port that is within 0 and 1024 (1,024) is known as a common port. Let's explore some of these other protocols below:

->File Transfer Protocol (FTP) [Port 21]: This protocol is used by a file-sharing application built on a client-server model, meaning you can download files from a 
  central location.

->Secure Shell (SSH) [Port 22]: This protocol is used to securely login to systems via a text-based interface for management.

->HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) [Port 80]: This protocol powers the World Wide Web (WWW)! Your browser uses this to download text, images and videos of web pages.

->HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) [Port 443]: This protocol does the exact same as above; however, securely using encryption.

->Server Message Block (SMB) [Port 445]: This protocol is similar to the File Transfer Protocol (FTP); however, as well as files, SMB allows you to share devices like 
  printers.

->Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) [Port 3389]: This protocol is a secure means of logging in to a system using a visual desktop interface (as opposed to the text-based 
  limitations of the SSH protocol).

These protocols only follow the standards. I.e. you can administer applications that interact with these protocols on a different port other than what is the standard 
(running a web server on 8080 instead of the 80 standard port). Note, however, applications will presume that the standard is being followed, so you will have to provide 
a colon (:) along with the port number.

Port Forwarding:
Port forwarding is an essential component in connecting applications and services to the Internet. Without port forwarding, applications and services such as web servers 
are only available to devices within the same direct network.
Take a network as an example. Within this network, the server with an IP address of "192.168.1.10" runs a webserver on port 80. Only the two other computers on this 
network will be able to access it (this is known as an intranet). If the administrator wanted the website to be accessible to the public (using the Internet), they would 
have to implement port forwarding. With this, Network #2 will now be able to access the webserver running on Network #1 using the public IP address of Network #1 
(82.62.51.70).

Firewalls:
A firewall is a device within a network responsible for determining what traffic is allowed to enter and exit. Think of a firewall as border security for a network. 
An administrator can configure a firewall to permit or deny traffic from entering or exiting a network based on numerous factors such as:

->Where the traffic is coming from? (has the firewall been told to accept/deny traffic from a specific network?)
->Where is the traffic going to? (has the firewall been told to accept/deny traffic destined for a specific network?)
->What port is the traffic for? (has the firewall been told to accept/deny traffic destined for port 80 only?)
->What protocol is the traffic using? (has the firewall been told to accept/deny traffic that is UDP, TCP or both?)

Firewalls perform packet inspection to determine the answers to these questions.

Firewalls come in all shapes and sizes. From dedicated pieces of hardware (often found in large networks like businesses) that can handle a magnitude of data to 
residential routers (like at your home!) or software such as Snort, firewalls can be categorised into 2 to 5 categories.

The two primary categories of firewalls are:

->Stateful: 
  This type of firewall uses the entire information from a connection; rather than inspecting an individual packet, this firewall determines the behaviour of a device 
  based upon the entire connection. This firewall type consumes many resources in comparison to stateless firewalls as the decision making is dynamic. For example, 
  a firewall could allow the first parts of a TCP handshake that would later fail. If a connection from a host is bad, it will block the entire device.

->Stateless:
  This firewall type uses a static set of rules to determine whether or not individual packets are acceptable or not. For example, a device sending a bad packet will not 
  necessarily mean that the entire device is then blocked. Whilst these firewalls use much fewer resources than alternatives, they are much dumber. For example, these 
  firewalls are only effective as the rules that are defined within them. If a rule is not exactly matched, it is effectively useless. However, these firewalls are great 
  when receiving large amounts of traffic from a set of hosts (such as a Distributed Denial-of-Service attack)


VPN:
A Virtual Private Network (or VPN for short) is a technology that allows devices on separate networks to communicate securely by creating a dedicated path between each 
other over the Internet (known as a tunnel). Devices connected within this tunnel form their own private network.
For example, only devices within the same network (such as within a business) can directly communicate. However, a VPN allows two offices to be connected.
Benefits:
->Allows networks in different geographical locations to be connected: For example, a business with multiple offices will find VPNs beneficial, as it means that 
  resources like servers/infrastructure can be accessed from another office.

->Offers privacy: VPN technology uses encryption to protect data. This means that it can only be understood between the devices it was being sent from and is destined 
  for, meaning the data isn't vulnerable to sniffing. This encryption is useful in places with public WiFi, where no encryption is provided by the network. You can use 
  a VPN to protect your traffic from being viewed by other people.

->Offers anonymity: Journalists and activists depend upon VPNs to safely report on global issues in countries where freedom of speech is controlled. Usually, your traffic 
  can be viewed by your ISP and other intermediaries and, therefore, tracked. The level of anonymity a VPN provides is only as much as how other devices on the network 
  respect privacy. For example, a VPN that logs all of your data/history is essentially the same as not using a VPN in this regard.

VPN Technologies:

->PPP: This technology is used by PPTP to allow for authentication and provide encryption of data. VPNs work by using a private key and public certificate (similar to SSH). 
  A private key & certificate must match for you to connect. This technology is not capable of leaving a network by itself (non-routable).

->PPTP: The Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP) is the technology that allows the data from PPP to travel and leave a network. PPTP is very easy to set up and is 
  supported by most devices. It is, however, weakly encrypted in comparison to alternatives.

->IPSec: Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) encrypts data using the existing Internet Protocol (IP) framework. IPSec is difficult to set up in comparison to alternatives; 
  however, if successful, it boasts strong encryption and is also supported on many devices.

DNS:
DNS (Domain Name System) provides a simple way for us to communicate with devices on the internet without remembering complex numbers. Much like every house has a 
unique address for sending mail directly to it, every computer on the internet has its own unique address to communicate with it called an IP address. An IP 
address looks like the following 104.26.10.229, 4 sets of digits ranging from 0 - 255 separated by a period. When you want to visit a website, it's not exactly 
convenient to remember this complicated set of numbers, and that's where DNS can help. So instead of remembering 104.26.10.229, you can remember tryhackme.com instead.

 Domain Heirarchy:

  TLD (Top-Level Domain):
  A TLD is the most righthand part of a domain name. So, for example, the tryhackme.com TLD is .com. There are two types of TLD, gTLD (Generic Top Level) and ccTLD 
  (Country Code Top Level Domain). Historically a gTLD was meant to tell the user the domain name's purpose; for example, a .com would be for commercial purposes, 
  .org for an organisation, .edu for education and .gov for government. And a ccTLD was used for geographical purposes, for example, .ca for sites based in Canada, 
  .co.uk for sites based in the United Kingdom and so on. Due to such demand, there is an influx of new gTLDs ranging from .online , .club , .website , .biz and 
  so many more.

  Second-Level Domain:
  Taking tryhackme.com as an example, the .com part is the TLD, and tryhackme is the Second Level Domain. When registering a domain name, the second-level 
  domain is limited to 63 characters + the TLD and can only use a-z 0-9 and hyphens (cannot start or end with hyphens or have consecutive hyphens).

  Subdomain:
  A subdomain sits on the left-hand side of the Second-Level Domain using a period to separate it; for example, in the name admin.tryhackme.com the admin 
  part is the subdomain. A subdomain name has the same creation restrictions as a Second-Level Domain, being limited to 63 characters and can only use a-z 
  0-9 and hyphens (cannot start or end with hyphens or have consecutive hyphens). You can use multiple subdomains split with periods to create longer names, 
  such as jupiter.servers.tryhackme.com. But the length must be kept to 253 characters or less. There is no limit to the number of subdomains you can create 
  for your domain name.

 Domain Record Types:

  A Record: 
  These records resolve to IPv4 addresses, for example 104.26.10.229.

  AAAA Record:
  These records resolve to IPv6 addresses, for example 2606:4700:20::681a:be5.

  CNAME Record:
  These records resolve to another domain name, for example, TryHackMe's online shop has the subdomain name store.tryhackme.com which returns a CNAME 
  record shops.shopify.com. Another DNS request would then be made to shops.shopify.com to work out the IP address.

  MX Record:
  These records resolve to the address of the servers that handle the email for the domain you are querying, for example an MX record response for 
  tryhackme.com would look something like alt1.aspmx.l.google.com. These records also come with a priority flag. This tells the client in which order 
  to try the servers, this is perfect for if the main server goes down and email needs to be sent to a backup server.

  TXT Record:
  TXT records are free text fields where any text-based data can be stored. TXT records have multiple uses, but some common ones can be to list 
  servers that have the authority to send an email on behalf of the domain (this can help in the battle against spam and spoofed email). They can 
  also be used to verify ownership of the domain name when signing up for third party services.

 What happens when you make a DNS request?

  1.When you request a domain name, your computer first checks its local cache to see if you've previously looked up the address recently; 
    if not, a request to your Recursive DNS Server will be made.

  2.A Recursive DNS Server is usually provided by your ISP, but you can also choose your own. This server also has a local cache of recently 
    looked up domain names. If a result is found locally, this is sent back to your computer, and your request ends here (this is common for popular 
    and heavily requested services such as Google, Facebook, Twitter). If the request cannot be found locally, a journey begins to find the correct 
    answer, starting with the internet's root DNS servers.

  3.The root servers act as the DNS backbone of the internet; their job is to redirect you to the correct Top Level Domain Server, depending on your 
    request. If, for example, you request www.tryhackme.com, the root server will recognise the Top Level Domain of .com and refer you to the correct 
    TLD server that deals with .com addresses.

  4.The TLD server holds records for where to find the authoritative server to answer the DNS request. The authoritative server is often also known 
    as the nameserver for the domain. For example, the name server for tryhackme.com is kip.ns.cloudflare.com and uma.ns.cloudflare.com. You'll often 
    find multiple nameservers for a domain name to act as a backup in case one goes down.

  5.An authoritative DNS server is the server that is responsible for storing the DNS records for a particular domain name and where any updates to 
    your domain name DNS records would be made. Depending on the record type, the DNS record is then sent back to the Recursive DNS Server, where a 
    local copy will be cached for future requests and then relayed back to the original client that made the request. DNS records all come with a TTL 
    (Time To Live) value. This value is a number represented in seconds that the response should be saved for locally until you have to look it up again. 
    Caching saves on having to make a DNS request every time you communicate with a server.

HTTP:
HTTP is what's used whenever you view a website, developed by Tim Berners-Lee and his team between 1989-1991. HTTP is the set of rules used for 
communicating with web servers for the transmitting of webpage data, whether that is HTML, Images, Videos, etc.

 HTTPS:
 HTTPS is the secure version of HTTP. HTTPS data is encrypted so it not only stops people from seeing the data you are receiving and sending, 
 but it also gives you assurances that you're talking to the correct web server and not something impersonating it.

 URL:
 A URL is predominantly an instruction on how to access a resource on the internet.
 
 Example of a URL: http://user:password@tryhackme.com:80/view-room?id=1#task3

  It's features:

  ->Scheme(http): This instructs on what protocol to use for accessing the resource such as HTTP, HTTPS, FTP (File Transfer Protocol).

  ->User(user:password): Some services require authentication to log in, you can put a username and password into the URL to log in.

  ->Host(tryhackme.com): This is the hostname of the server you want to access.

  ->Port(80): The Port that you are going to connect to, usually 80 for HTTP and 443 for HTTPS, but this can be hosted on any port between 1 - 65535.

  ->Path(view-room): The file name or location of the resource you are trying to access.

  ->Query String(?id=1): Extra bits of information that can be sent to the requested path. For example, /blog?id=1 would tell the blog path that you 
    wish to receive the blog article with the id of 1.

  ->Fragment(#task3): This is a reference to a location on the actual page requested. This is commonly used for pages with long content and can 
    have a certain part of the page directly linked to it, so it is viewable to the user as soon as they access the page.

  Making a Request:
  It's possible to make a request to a web server with just one line GET / HTTP/1.1. But for a much richer web experience, you’ll need to 
  send other data as well. This other data is sent in what is called headers, where headers contain extra information to give to the web server 
  you’re communicating with.